BST

Balance factor = height of left subtree - height of right sub tree
A tree is balanced if |balance factor| <= 1

Rotations
- Always done on 3 nodes
- LL: 3 nodes where all are left pointer. Pull string from right (1 steps)
- RR: 3 nodes where all are right pointer. Pull string from left (1 steps)
- LR: 3 nodes where first node is left, then second node is right. First convert to LL imbalance then do LL rotation (2 steps)
Or node 3 moves up to node 1 position and node 1 moves to right of node 3
- RL: 3 nodes where first node is right, then second node is left. First convert to RR imbalance then do RR rotation (2 steps)
Or node 3 moves up to node 1 position and node 1 moves to left of node 3

General formula
1. Look at node 1. If its factor > 1, we need to perform rotation. Eg. lets say it is 2, meaning its left
subtree is taller than right subtree
2. Now do we perform LL or LR rotation. If node 2 has negative balance factor, perform LR as its right subtree is taller
If node 2 has positive balance factor, then perform LL rotation as its left subtree is taller
3. How to perform LL rotation. Rotate around Node 1. Right child of Node 2 now becomes Node 1's left child after rotation
4. How to perform LR rotation. Node 3 moves up to node 1 position and node 1 moves to right of node 3.
Node 3 left child becomes node 2 right child. Node 3 right child becomes node 1 left child

Generating AVL tree
- Node now has height property
- At every insertion, we need to calculate balance factors and perform rotation if it exceeds 2 or -2
- This can be done recursively
1. Left child = insert(left child with new node) if new node is smaller then curr. Else insert to right child
2. Update height of curr node
3. Based on balance factor of curr node and its left and right child, perform one of the 4 rotations if necessary. If
not needed just return current node

Deletion of AVL tree
- same procedure as deletion from BST but need do balancing. Deletion can result in the following 6 different cases
l1: Parent is 2, left child is 1: perform LL
l-1: Parent is 2, left child is -1: perform LR
l0: Parent is 2, left child is 0. Can perform either LL or LR
Remaining 3 cases are opposite
